docs/index.md, before:

# The decoder is a weak LM
Whisper is trained soley on supervised speech-to-text data; the decoder is NOT pretrained on text. Despite this, we find that it learns weak langauge modelling behaviour.

*For context: Whisper is an encoder-decoder transformer model. The input to the encoder is a 30s chunk of audio (shorter chunks can be padded) and autoregressively predicts the transcript.*

## Bigrams
If we use just padding frames as the input of the encoder and 'prompt' the decoder we can recover bigram statistics. For example,

The start of the transcription is normally indicated by:\
`<|startoftranscript|><|en|><|transcribe|>`

Instead we set it to be:\
`<|startoftranscript|><|en|><|transcribe|> <prompt>`

Below we plot the top 20 most likely next tokens and their corresponding logit for a variety of prompts. We can see that when the model has no acoustic information it relys on learnt bigrams.

![very](decoder/prompt_images/very_prompt.png)
![traffic](decoder/prompt_images/traffic.png)
![Good](decoder/prompt_images/Good_prompt.png)

![duck](decoder/embedding_space/duck_embed.png)
![rug](decoder/embedding_space/rug_embed.png)
![stay](decoder/embedding_space/stay_embed.png)
![tea](decoder/embedding_space/tea_embed.png)
![UK](decoder/embedding_space/UK_embed.png)





# Acoustic Features
We found max activating dataset examples for all of the neurons in the mlp layers of the encoder. We also trained sparse autoencoders on the residual stream activations and found max activating dataset examples for these learnt features. By amplifying the sound around the point where the neuron/feature is maximally active, we found them to be highly interpretable. Below are examples of some of the features we found.

## encoder.blocks.3.mlp.1 - Neuron Basis
<details>
<summary>Neuron 4 ('said')</summary>
<audio controls>
   <source src="audio/b3_mlp1_nb_4pkl_sample0.wav" type="audio/wav">
   Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>
<audio controls>
   <source src="audio/b3_mlp1_nb_4pkl_sample3.wav" type="audio/wav">
   Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>
<audio controls>
   <source src="audio/b3_mlp1_nb_4pkl_sample4.wav" type="audio/wav">
   Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>
<audio controls>
   <source src="audio/b3_mlp1_nb_4pkl_sample8.wav" type="audio/wav">
   Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>
</details>

<details>
<summary>Neuron 9 ('way/wait')</summary>
<audio controls>
   <source src="audio/b3_mlp1_nb_9pkl_sample5.wav" type="audio/wav">
   Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>
<audio controls>
   <source src="audio/b3_mlp1_nb_9pkl_sample8.wav" type="audio/wav">
   Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>
<audio controls>
   <source src="audio/b3_mlp1_nb_9pkl_sample9.wav" type="audio/wav">
   Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>
</details>

<details>
<summary>Neuron 20 ('f')</summary>
<audio controls>
   <source src="audio/b3_mlp1_nb_20pkl_sample0.wav" type="audio/wav">
   Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>
<audio controls>
   <source src="audio/b3_mlp1_nb_20pkl_sample6.wav" type="audio/wav">
   Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>
<audio controls>
   <source src="audio/b3_mlp1_nb_20pkl_sample8.wav" type="audio/wav">
   Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>
<audio controls>
   <source src="audio/b3_mlp1_nb_20pkl_sample9.wav" type="audio/wav">
   Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>
</details>

## encoder.blocks.2.mlp.1 - Neuron Basis
<details>
<summary>Neuron 0 ('m')</summary>
<audio controls>
   <source src="audio/b2_mlp1_nb_0pkl_sample3.wav" type="audio/wav">
   Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>
<audio controls>
   <source src="audio/b2_mlp1_nb_0pkl_sample6.wav" type="audio/wav">
   Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>
<audio controls>
   <source src="audio/b2_mlp1_nb_0pkl_sample7.wav" type="audio/wav">
   Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>
<audio controls>
   <source src="audio/b2_mlp1_nb_0pkl_sample8.wav" type="audio/wav">
   Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>
</details>

<details>
<summary>Neuron 1 ('sh/ch'))</summary>
<audio controls>
   <source src="audio/b2_mlp1_nb_1pkl_sample1.wav" type="audio/wav">
   Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>
<audio controls>
   <source src="audio/b2_mlp1_nb_1pkl_sample2.wav" type="audio/wav">
   Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>
<audio controls>
   <source src="audio/b2_mlp1_nb_1pkl_sample8.wav" type="audio/wav">
   Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>
<audio controls>
   <source src="audio/b2_mlp1_nb_1pkl_sample9.wav" type="audio/wav">
   Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>
</details>

<details>
<summary>Neuron 3 ('c')</summary>
<audio controls>
   <source src="audio/b2_mlp1_nb_3pkl_sample4.wav" type="audio/wav">
   Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>
<audio controls>
   <source src="audio/b2_mlp1_nb_3pkl_sample5.wav" type="audio/wav">
   Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>
<audio controls>
   <source src="audio/b2_mlp1_nb_3pkl_sample6.wav" type="audio/wav">
   Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>
<audio controls>
   <source src="audio/b2_mlp1_nb_3pkl_sample8.wav" type="audio/wav">
   Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>
</details>

## encoder.blocks.3 - Learnt using sparse autoencoder
<details>
<summary>Dictionary idx=131 ("r")</summary>
<audio controls>
   <source src="audio/b3_res_131pkl_sample2.wav" type="audio/wav">
   Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>
<audio controls>
   <source src="audio/b3_res_131pkl_sample7.wav" type="audio/wav">
   Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>
<audio controls>
   <source src="audio/b3_res_131pkl_sample9.wav" type="audio/wav">
   Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>
<audio controls>
   <source src="audio/b3_res_131pkl_sample8.wav" type="audio/wav">
   Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>
</details>

<details>
<summary>Dictionary idx=1 ("n")</summary>
<audio controls>
   <source src="audio/b3_res_1pkl_sample0.wav" type="audio/wav">
   Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>
<audio controls>
   <source src="audio/b3_res_1pkl_sample1.wav" type="audio/wav">
   Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>
<audio controls>
   <source src="audio/b3_res_1pkl_sample3.wav" type="audio/wav">
   Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>
<audio controls>
   <source src="audio/b3_res_1pkl_sample8.wav" type="audio/wav">
   Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>
</details>

<details>
<summary>Dictionary idx=2 ("p")</summary>
<audio controls>
   <source src="audio/b3_res_2pkl_sample0.wav" type="audio/wav">
   Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>
<audio controls>
   <source src="audio/b3_res_2pkl_sample2.wav" type="audio/wav">
   Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>
<audio controls>
   <source src="audio/b3_res_2pkl_sample3.wav" type="audio/wav">
   Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>
<audio controls>
   <source src="audio/b3_res_2pkl_sample9.wav" type="audio/wav">
   Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>
</details>

## encoder.blocks.2 - Learnt using sparse autoencoder
<details>
<summary>Dictionary idx=3 ("an/in/on")</summary>
<audio controls>
   <source src="audio/b2_res_3pkl_sample1.wav" type="audio/wav">
   Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>
<audio controls>
   <source src="audio/b2_res_3pkl_sample6.wav" type="audio/wav">
   Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>
<audio controls>
   <source src="audio/b2_res_3pkl_sample9.wav" type="audio/wav">
   Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>
<audio controls>
   <source src="audio/b2_res_3pkl_sample8.wav" type="audio/wav">
   Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>
</details>

<details>
<summary>Dictionary idx=4 ("I (eg time/try/I))</summary>
<audio controls>
   <source src="audio/b2_res_4pkl_sample3.wav" type="audio/wav">
   Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>
<audio controls>
   <source src="audio/b2_res_4pkl_sample6.wav" type="audio/wav">
   Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>
<audio controls>
   <source src="audio/b2_res_4pkl_sample9.wav" type="audio/wav">
   Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>
<audio controls>
   <source src="audio/b2_res_4pkl_sample7.wav" type="audio/wav">
   Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>
</details>

<details>
<summary>Dictionary idx=6 ("l")</summary>
<audio controls>
   <source src="audio/b2_res_6pkl_sample0.wav" type="audio/wav">
   Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>
<audio controls>
   <source src="audio/b2_res_6pkl_sample2.wav" type="audio/wav">
   Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>
<audio controls>
   <source src="audio/b2_res_6pkl_sample9.wav" type="audio/wav">
   Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>
<audio controls>
   <source src="audio/b2_res_6pkl_sample3.wav" type="audio/wav">
   Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>
</details>


# The encoder representations are very localized

Commit message:

Add description of embedding space

docs/index.md, after:

# The decoder is a weak LM
Whisper is trained soley on supervised speech-to-text data; the decoder is NOT pretrained on text. Despite this, we find that it learns weak langauge modelling behaviour.

*For context: Whisper is an encoder-decoder transformer model. The input to the encoder is a 30s chunk of audio (shorter chunks can be padded) and autoregressively predicts the transcript.*

## Bigrams
If we use just padding frames as the input of the encoder and 'prompt' the decoder we can recover bigram statistics. For example,

The start of the transcription is normally indicated by:\
`<|startoftranscript|><|en|><|transcribe|>`

Instead we set it to be:\
`<|startoftranscript|><|en|><|transcribe|> <prompt>`

Below we plot the top 20 most likely next tokens and their corresponding logit for a variety of prompts. We can see that when the model has no acoustic information it relys on learnt bigrams.

![very](decoder/prompt_images/very_prompt.png)
![traffic](decoder/prompt_images/traffic.png)
![Good](decoder/prompt_images/Good_prompt.png)

## Embedding space

Bigram statistics are often learnt by the token embedding layer in transformer language models. Additionally, semantically similar words are often clustered in embedding space. We find this to be true of Whisper, but in addition to the Bigram statistics and semantic clustering, we find that words that **sound** the same are also close by in embedding space. Below we select a few words then plot the 20 nearest (highest cosine similarity) tokens.
'rug' is close in embedding space to lug, mug and tug. This is not very surprising of a speech-to-text model; if you *think* you hear the word 'rug', it is quite likely that the speech was in fact lug or mug.
![rug](decoder/embedding_space/rug_embed.png)
Often tokens that are close in embedding space and a combination of rhyming words **and** semantically similar words:
![UK](decoder/embedding_space/UK_embed.png)
![duck](decoder/embedding_space/duck_embed.png)
![tea](decoder/embedding_space/tea_embed.png)


# Acoustic Features
We found max activating dataset examples for all of the neurons in the mlp layers of the encoder. We also trained sparse autoencoders on the residual stream activations and found max activating dataset examples for these learnt features. By amplifying the sound around the point where the neuron/feature is maximally active, we found them to be highly interpretable. Below are examples of some of the features we found.

## encoder.blocks.3.mlp.1 - Neuron Basis
<details>
<summary>Neuron 4 ('said')</summary>
<audio controls>
   <source src="audio/b3_mlp1_nb_4pkl_sample0.wav" type="audio/wav">
   Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>
<audio controls>
   <source src="audio/b3_mlp1_nb_4pkl_sample3.wav" type="audio/wav">
   Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>
<audio controls>
   <source src="audio/b3_mlp1_nb_4pkl_sample4.wav" type="audio/wav">
   Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>
<audio controls>
   <source src="audio/b3_mlp1_nb_4pkl_sample8.wav" type="audio/wav">
   Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>
</details>

<details>
<summary>Neuron 9 ('way/wait')</summary>
<audio controls>
   <source src="audio/b3_mlp1_nb_9pkl_sample5.wav" type="audio/wav">
   Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>
<audio controls>
   <source src="audio/b3_mlp1_nb_9pkl_sample8.wav" type="audio/wav">
   Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>
<audio controls>
   <source src="audio/b3_mlp1_nb_9pkl_sample9.wav" type="audio/wav">
   Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>
</details>

<details>
<summary>Neuron 20 ('f')</summary>
<audio controls>
   <source src="audio/b3_mlp1_nb_20pkl_sample0.wav" type="audio/wav">
   Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>
<audio controls>
   <source src="audio/b3_mlp1_nb_20pkl_sample6.wav" type="audio/wav">
   Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>
<audio controls>
   <source src="audio/b3_mlp1_nb_20pkl_sample8.wav" type="audio/wav">
   Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>
<audio controls>
   <source src="audio/b3_mlp1_nb_20pkl_sample9.wav" type="audio/wav">
   Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>
</details>

## encoder.blocks.2.mlp.1 - Neuron Basis
<details>
<summary>Neuron 0 ('m')</summary>
<audio controls>
   <source src="audio/b2_mlp1_nb_0pkl_sample3.wav" type="audio/wav">
   Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>
<audio controls>
   <source src="audio/b2_mlp1_nb_0pkl_sample6.wav" type="audio/wav">
   Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>
<audio controls>
   <source src="audio/b2_mlp1_nb_0pkl_sample7.wav" type="audio/wav">
   Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>
<audio controls>
   <source src="audio/b2_mlp1_nb_0pkl_sample8.wav" type="audio/wav">
   Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>
</details>

<details>
<summary>Neuron 1 ('sh/ch'))</summary>
<audio controls>
   <source src="audio/b2_mlp1_nb_1pkl_sample1.wav" type="audio/wav">
   Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>
<audio controls>
   <source src="audio/b2_mlp1_nb_1pkl_sample2.wav" type="audio/wav">
   Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>
<audio controls>
   <source src="audio/b2_mlp1_nb_1pkl_sample8.wav" type="audio/wav">
   Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>
<audio controls>
   <source src="audio/b2_mlp1_nb_1pkl_sample9.wav" type="audio/wav">
   Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>
</details>

<details>
<summary>Neuron 3 ('c')</summary>
<audio controls>
   <source src="audio/b2_mlp1_nb_3pkl_sample4.wav" type="audio/wav">
   Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>
<audio controls>
   <source src="audio/b2_mlp1_nb_3pkl_sample5.wav" type="audio/wav">
   Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>
<audio controls>
   <source src="audio/b2_mlp1_nb_3pkl_sample6.wav" type="audio/wav">
   Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>
<audio controls>
   <source src="audio/b2_mlp1_nb_3pkl_sample8.wav" type="audio/wav">
   Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>
</details>

## encoder.blocks.3 - Learnt using sparse autoencoder
<details>
<summary>Dictionary idx=131 ("r")</summary>
<audio controls>
   <source src="audio/b3_res_131pkl_sample2.wav" type="audio/wav">
   Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>
<audio controls>
   <source src="audio/b3_res_131pkl_sample7.wav" type="audio/wav">
   Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>
<audio controls>
   <source src="audio/b3_res_131pkl_sample9.wav" type="audio/wav">
   Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>
<audio controls>
   <source src="audio/b3_res_131pkl_sample8.wav" type="audio/wav">
   Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>
</details>

<details>
<summary>Dictionary idx=1 ("n")</summary>
<audio controls>
   <source src="audio/b3_res_1pkl_sample0.wav" type="audio/wav">
   Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>
<audio controls>
   <source src="audio/b3_res_1pkl_sample1.wav" type="audio/wav">
   Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>
<audio controls>
   <source src="audio/b3_res_1pkl_sample3.wav" type="audio/wav">
   Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>
<audio controls>
   <source src="audio/b3_res_1pkl_sample8.wav" type="audio/wav">
   Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>
</details>

<details>
<summary>Dictionary idx=2 ("p")</summary>
<audio controls>
   <source src="audio/b3_res_2pkl_sample0.wav" type="audio/wav">
   Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>
<audio controls>
   <source src="audio/b3_res_2pkl_sample2.wav" type="audio/wav">
   Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>
<audio controls>
   <source src="audio/b3_res_2pkl_sample3.wav" type="audio/wav">
   Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>
<audio controls>
   <source src="audio/b3_res_2pkl_sample9.wav" type="audio/wav">
   Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>
</details>

## encoder.blocks.2 - Learnt using sparse autoencoder
<details>
<summary>Dictionary idx=3 ("an/in/on")</summary>
<audio controls>
   <source src="audio/b2_res_3pkl_sample1.wav" type="audio/wav">
   Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>
<audio controls>
   <source src="audio/b2_res_3pkl_sample6.wav" type="audio/wav">
   Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>
<audio controls>
   <source src="audio/b2_res_3pkl_sample9.wav" type="audio/wav">
   Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>
<audio controls>
   <source src="audio/b2_res_3pkl_sample8.wav" type="audio/wav">
   Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>
</details>

<details>
<summary>Dictionary idx=4 ("I (eg time/try/I))</summary>
<audio controls>
   <source src="audio/b2_res_4pkl_sample3.wav" type="audio/wav">
   Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>
<audio controls>
   <source src="audio/b2_res_4pkl_sample6.wav" type="audio/wav">
   Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>
<audio controls>
   <source src="audio/b2_res_4pkl_sample9.wav" type="audio/wav">
   Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>
<audio controls>
   <source src="audio/b2_res_4pkl_sample7.wav" type="audio/wav">
   Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>
</details>

<details>
<summary>Dictionary idx=6 ("l")</summary>
<audio controls>
   <source src="audio/b2_res_6pkl_sample0.wav" type="audio/wav">
   Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>
<audio controls>
   <source src="audio/b2_res_6pkl_sample2.wav" type="audio/wav">
   Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>
<audio controls>
   <source src="audio/b2_res_6pkl_sample9.wav" type="audio/wav">
   Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>
<audio controls>
   <source src="audio/b2_res_6pkl_sample3.wav" type="audio/wav">
   Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>
</details>


# The encoder representations are very localized
